hospitals in the southern parts of the
strip are facing power outages as
generators run dry sick and wounded
patients face certain death if supplies
aren't allowed in the director of the
Kuwaiti hospital and Rafa has urged the
International Community to provide
desperately needed
fuel the Zionist aggression is ongoing
against our people in Rafa the Israeli
Zionist forces hit more than half of the
area and the world's still silent and
unable to intervene we're now in the
Kuwait Hospital which is the only
operating Hospital in Rafa and it
operates as a reception Point 24/7 we're
sounding the alarm and urging the
international Health Organization to
live up to its responsibilities and
provide the hospital with the necessary
fuel to par the generators we want to
urge every organization to live up to
their responsibilities the Palestinian
people must not be left alone to face
their fate this Hospital still operating
and has never been evacuated we will
continue our efforts for the s of the
patients and we're now trying to
establish a field hospital as soon as
possible well let's speak to Bridget Ros
she's a midwife from the United States
she's now been in Gaza for a month
working at the emirati hospital she
joins us now from der Al Bala Bridget I
understand you've been working at the
emirati hospital which is in Rafa you're
now speaking to us in Dar Al Bala does
that mean you've been
[Music]
evacuated um I've not really been
evacuated quite yet but as the invasion
continues
um
intoa there has been a huge displacement
of patients um of people over 800,000
people have been displaced from Rafa so
the census at Emira Hospital although
still active is now
low but you're a midwife can I ask you
to reflect a little on what you've seen
during the course of your work over the
last
month yes um at Emira Hospital in
particular I've seen the bir of so many
babies uh Emira Hospital a few weeks ago
was the last functioning maternity
hospital in all of Gaza Strip not just
Rafa alone I have seen women who
consistently have not had any prenatal
care throughout their pregnancies women
who do not get adequate postpartum care
women who are suffering through kind of
immense tragedy and pain as they're in
this moment of their lives that's very
significant of giving birth where
there's supposed to be a lot of joy and
love and support um I have seen a lack
of supplies turn into no supplies in
hospitals um it has been not only at
maradi hospital but across the Gaza
Strip the healthcare situation has
become Beyond
catastrophic obviously when you're
dealing with any kind of complications
around birth a lot of babies will need
additional support you talk about that
the lack of supplies we know there's
been a lack of fuel we know there have
been babies who who need to be incubated
for for instance what is the situation
right
now yeah I think you make a really good
point when it comes to fuel fuel I think
um especially in a western context we
think about it just for transportation
but it's really important for everybody
to know that fuel is literally what is
running the Gaza Strip right now fuel is
how we have electricity fuel is how
hospitals stay on fuel is what allows
incubators to stay on and with the
closing of Rocka border um Crossing and
the complete complete dwindling of
supplies and fuel into Gaza we are
constantly at risk of everything
shutting down of babies dying because
their incubators aren't working um we
know that there's over 10 million tanks
of fuel waiting outside of in Egypt um
to come into Rafa and it is not here and
it is so
necessary bridet we understand there is
some Aid including something well what's
supposed to be four tankers of fuel now
on its way into the Gaza Strip as a
medical professional do you know where
any of that might be going have you been
informed of of who's going to receive
any of these
[Music]
supplies I don't have specific knowledge
of that as I don't operate in logistics
but I know that fuel is always
prioritized to hospitals sure um Bridget
you you spoke about watching the births
of so many children and so many women
going through that experience in a in a
very traumatic time of War can you
explain a little bit to to our viewers
about what that does to to a woman I
imagine as a woman myself I can't even
imagine giving birth in a war zone let
alone what's happened in Gaza over the
last 7even months that obviously has not
only physical but mental consequences
too I think it's really important to
think about the framework of
reproductive Justice reproductive
Justice is a is the notion that women
deserve deserve to give birth safely
they deserve access to health care and
that they deserve to raise their
children in safe environments
reproductive Justice does not exist in
Gaza because of Israeli military
violence because of the over 20 year
long SE almost 20 year long siege that
has been going on in Gaza because of the
lack of resources because of the
constant violence emirati hospital was
deliver there was they were delivering
over you know a, almost 12200 B of month
a few months ago and now our census has
dropped completely and that's because
the patients have not only been
displaced but they are afraid to go to
the hospital Israel has had a systematic
attack on all Health Care Systems not
one hospital has been left unscathed by
by their violence and this is extended
to also the systematic killing of
healthcare workers um the women need
physiologically need a safe place in
order to to go into labor in order to
feel safe in their bodies and having a
baby and none of that exists
here Bridget roio there a midwife from
the United States speaking to us there
from Gaza where she's been working for a
month at the emirati hospital thank you
so much for your time Bridget we wish
you all the best with your
work make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler